# SKINCARE-PRODUCT-USE-OPTIMIZATION

This project is designed to optimize the use of personal skin care product use. Personal skin care products are created to meet the demand for better skin. The market now is full of different products which makes it difficult for consumers to decide their choice. In this project, we will build a model to help consumers plan their usage and use an example to illustrate the process.

The first model minimizes annual cost on personal skin care products. Every skin care product has their effects and price. In our example, we extracted 20 popular products in 2018 and simply classified their effects into 6 categories: moisturizing, cleaning, uv-protection, anti-aging, soothing, acne-healing. We made questionnaires asking interviewees to rate each product for each effect based on their experience. The average rates were then standardized to rates per ounce. These rates can represent how many “function units” each product can provide for each effect. The price comes from online shop websites, majorly Sephora and Amazon. The data can be modified according to the user’s own opinion about each product in each effect. 

The second model optimizes the use of skin care products while counting their adverse effects in. Personal care products become a more and more popular topic in eco-toxicity field recent years. Every product contains a list of chemicals which were reported to adversely affect both human health and ecosystem structures. However, the ingredients of these products are usually trade secrets so we cannot make sure that all the data provided below are reliable. Ingredients for these products can be found here: http://www.cosdna.com/. We only kept main active ingredients rather than the whole list in our example. The percentage of each chemical ingredients in this example is from our estimation.

In this example, the minimal annual cost is 79.53. Acne-healing has the highest shadow price. To minimize adverse effects, we will need to determine the weight we put on ecosystem risk. Higher weight will cause lower ecosystem risk but higher human health risk, and lower weight will cause higher ecosystem risk but lower human health risk. The lowest human health risk we can get is around 1e-10 cases of both cancer and non-caner disease, while the lowest freshwater ecosystem risk we can get is around 200 PAF*m^3. When we care both minimal cost and adverse effects, we usually end up with moderate cost and adverse effects.

The model can be improved by including more types of effects and a more objective way to quantify how much they could provide for each effect. It is also interesting to model this as an integer program in a shorter time than a year, since the product usually comes in whole containers rather than ounces.


